# Contemporary Issues

<br>
In this document, I discuss two articles about the laws or policies making concerning the data and AI privacy. The first article presents the "chaotic" situation where policies are yet to be implemented, whereas the second article shows us that a harsh regulation could elicit chaos as well.
<br>

## As states move on AI, tech lobbyists are swarming in

The first article I found insightful and interesting concerning different viewpoints between tech lobbyists and legislators on the AI data privacy issues is [**“As states move on AI, tech lobbyists are swarming in”**](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/09/08/tech-lobby-state-ai-efforts-00114778) written by Brendan Bordelon. To briefly summarize the article, tech lobbyists were trying every efforts to influence state-level AI legislation in the US to avoid strict regulations concerning the usage of AI on a corporate level. They also sought to persuade the federal government to establish standard regulations before individual states so that there would be less inconsistence among the sphere and thus benefit the tech industry. It is important to notice that the reason why lobbyists were so proactive was the fact that they have learned lessons from past battles over state data privacy laws. As the head of the Technology Engagment Center at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Jordan Crenshaw pointed out that *“state data-privacy laws created an inconsistent state-by-state legal landscape”*.

The conversations on the issue of AI and data privacy do not only concerning lawmakers and tech lobbyists. Consumers also played an undeniable role here. While tech lobbyists were hoping to see a less strict and more generous policies, consumer advocates were greatly concerned that *“indsutry will be the dominant voice”* in the discussion and thus potentially undermining the interests of the public. It is not hard to understand such as gap between the tech lobbyists and consumers. They all consider and put their own benefits and concerns at the first place. For me, as a consumer but also a person hoping to see the flourishing of technology, hope that there could a balance that safeguards consumers interests while also facilitating innovation.

## What to Know About the TikTok Security Concerns

One of the most controversial and influential issues in the sphere of data privacy was the controversy over TikTok, which was not simply a fight between legislatives and tech companies but escalated into a political debate as discussed in [**“What to Know About the TikTok Security Concerns”**](https://time.com/6265651/tiktok-security-us/). The U.S. government was quite concerned that TikTok would pose a national secruity risk and that Chinese government would get access to U.S. data and influenced the U.S. public ; it argued that there was a close tie between Chinese government and the company. Despite a lack of concrete evidence, a congressional hearing was held in March. In the hearing, Shou, the CEO of TikTok, contended that TikTok *“has never shared, or received a request to share, U.S. user data with the chinese government."*

The debate and controversy over TikTok was quite complicated since it involved many different parties and stakeholders including the U.S. government, lawmakers, privacy advocates, TikTok, Chinese government, TikTok’s competitors, and others. Opinions from TikTok and U.S. government-related stakeholders were obvious and easy to digest. What’s worthy of noticing was that some argue that the focus should not be solely on TikTok but on the broder lack of privacy legislation in the U.S.. As Eva Galperin, the director of cybersecurity at the Electronic Frontier Foundation wrote on Twitter, people may just hate that a Chinese company has built a dominant social media platform. It was also interesing to notice that Meta, TikTok’s comeptitiors, also joined the conversation. Meta portrayed TikTok as a danger to children in the U.S. and argued that it deserved a ban. The join of Meta further complicated the issues and broaden the influence of the issue.